[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> My dream is to enable all
people to build the world they
want to live in.
What I love about running a
global ecosystem in impact
and sustainability
is that we get
to make a difference to
where investments go,
how companies run
their businesses,
and what policies are
being implemented.
What I do best is
analyzing an entire system
and looking at ways to
make it more efficient.
There are endless opportunities
to create a better planet right
now.
What I get to see at the
forefront of positive innovation
is mind blowing.
We are standing at a unique
crossroads in human history.
Look at what is
happening in the world.
Everything is changing more
rapidly than ever before,
and we have realized that
this is going to continue.
There are two paths
available to you.
You can focus on building
your personal utopian
life, which naturally
contributes to the collective.
Or you can let your
energy be dragged
into all the debates about
the problems we're facing
and complain about dystopia.
You've done the
inner work, and you
are aware of your own power, so
what are you going to focus on?
We are here to focus on
utopia in a very concrete way.
We will show you incredible
initiatives that are currently
building an exciting
reality, and we will give you
a behind the scenes look at the
people who are building this.
We're here to give you tools
and knowledge to build utopia
in your day-to-day reality.
Because if we all
live on purpose,
we are ultimately going to
create utopia on this planet.
We are taking you
on this journey
because we believe
that it's up to you
to manifest a utopian
life that you love living,
and that if each
one of us does that,
our entire planet will
go to the next level.
>> Throughout my career and
throughout my professional
and personal life, I just
love to bring people together
because culture and history,
you cannot prescribe.
It's organic.
It has to emerge.
It has to be emergent.
But you can give people tools
and frameworks and capacity
to help codesign
their best outcomes.
>> The communities we live in
shape the way we dare to show up
in our life.
Our environments
can limit or expand
our perspective of
what is possible.
There is a set of
values and rules
we agree on inside
a certain space,
whether it's a house,
a city, or a country.
Surrounding ourselves
with like-minded people
is much more than
a pleasant choice.
It is what empowers us to live
our lives in a certain way.
If it's not normal to
be courageous around us,
or if the judgment of people
who make unique choices
is embedded in the way our
community looks at the world,
it becomes much tougher for
us to show up authentically.
>> What is the utopia today?
And I don't think that
there is any one utopia.
I think we all have our own
version of the perfect community
or the perfect world, and
it's incumbent upon us
to prototype and try things
and work together and cocreate
with other people.
And I started to really
develop this idea around,
how are we going to create
sustainable communities
and cities of the future?
What I've discovered and
I'm learning more and more,
and I say this
often, is that when
dealing with community
or partnerships or family
or anything, is that success
moves at the speed of trust.
>> Aligning the communities we
live in with certain values we
choose is a big, big
challenge of our times.
Our culture is changing, but the
Western economic and political
systems were not shaped
to think long term
or to maximize the
collective good.
That is just not built
into the incentives
and into the structures
that run our systems.
It is even more important
to create communities
where like-minded people
who want to act with courage
and do things differently
can be surrounded by others
who have similar interests.
There is enough
friction with wanting
to change our systems already.
Feeling accepted in
our choices can help
us take the less-traveled road.
>> But what is a utopia today?
My grandmother started a
version of it in the '70s.
It began in 1974 with my
grandmother, Ma Jaya Sati
Bhagavati, who is
also known originally
as Joyce Greene from
Brooklyn, New York.
She ended up moving
and relocating
to Florida with her
closest disciples,
and they started her
version of a utopia, which
is Kashi Ashram, which is an
interfaith community in Central
Florida, in a town
called Sebastian,
which is a very remote, small
town on the central east coast
of Florida.
My grandmother
adopted me at birth,
and that's where I grew
up, sleeping on the temple
floor in the ashram, meditating
at all times of the day
or night at the request of
my grandmother, the guru.
So now we're entering
the Dattatreya Temple,
which is the main
temple at Kashi Ashram,
where my grandmother,
Ma Jaya Sati Bhagavati,
taught for 40-plus years.
And I slept on the
floor, various parts.
At one point, there was 15 to 20
people sleeping on this floor.
We would all eat
together in big groups.
So it was very much a village
and beautiful community.
And so all of the major
meditations and darshans,
which is the teaching of the
guru, happened in this space.
So it's a very,
very potent place
for spiritual transformation.
It was quite an active and
beautiful and intense childhood
growing up in
community, and it was
like growing up in a
tribe in many ways,
but it was really focused on
feeding everybody and really
taking care of people.
And I always wanted to be
someone unique and original
and have my own identity.
And when I left the ashram,
I went to Northwestern.
And that was the first
kind of awakening I had
of being out in the world of
what the ashram provided me.
It was a bubble.
I think that was something that
was unique about who I became
is that I could meet
anybody where they were
and that it didn't
matter if they
were a billionaire or somebody
who is sweeping the streets.
At that point, I
became independent.
I lived in Argentina in 1998,
when the peso and the dollar
were 1 to 1.
It was basically the
heyday of Argentina.
This is really
what opened my eyes
to a diverse, cosmopolitan city.
And that's really
what brought me
into this context
of the public domain
and public realm and
place-based development.
And I developed a
name for myself,
and then I became a nightlife
personality in Miami.
[UPBEAT MUSIC]
I worked at the
top clubs in Miami,
and then I got into real estate
while I was in nightlife.
So I really focused on really
revitalizing the urban core
through kind of
using the warehouse
or industrial properties
as your canvas
to reimagine a neighborhood or
reimagine a district or a city.
And it was through the lenses
of independent brands, artists,
creatives, makers.
That was my new playground.
That was my new inspiration.
And I was really excited
about the prospect
of creating and curating
and shaping neighborhoods.
I really wanted
to bring the soul,
the heart back to
main street and back
to neighborhood making
and placemaking.
And so I got very integrated
into kind of the cocreation
of the Wynwood Arts District.
And so that really impacted
me, to witness that I was part
of something-- it didn't
happen overnight--
but was really
eye-opening for me.
It made me start to think
deeply about what I was doing
and the impacts of
what I was doing.
And essentially, it's
through this period
where the Future of Cities
platform and regenerative
placemaking was born.
Regenerative
placemaking combines
regenerative development
theory or whole systems theory
with creative
placemaking practices.
And it's really about looking
at every situation, every place,
every neighbor, every
community as an opportunity.
And how do we really create
and co-evolve and elevate
those communities
and those places
with these regenerative
practices and theories
of codesign and coevolution?
And so that's really the goal
of regenerative placemaking,
is really to get the community
to get the places to a higher
order of existence.
And we're open sourcing
and prototyping
that with advisors from
all over the world,
from academic
institutions to artists
to placemakers to investors
to government officials
to urban planners.
And really, our mission
is to create a tool kit
that we could scale through
our regenerative placemaking
framework.
Across our projects,
across our portfolio,
across our businesses, is really
to rapidly prototype solutions.
This is fundamental and
core to regenerative
placemaking because
sustainability is not enough
now.
We have to go beyond
sustainability
because sustainability
is just status quo,
and we've taken so much more
than we can sustain any longer.
And so we have to reverse all
of the damage and the extraction
that we've been doing for
the last thousands of years.
>> When we zoom out and look
at the history of communities,
we really have to look at our
overall history as a species.
There is a framework I enjoy
using called spiral dynamics.
It is a model based on the
idea that our societies develop
through stages.
Each stage represents an
increased level of awareness
about our environment.
There are eight stages, and
they are shown as a spiral
because each level alternates
between individual or collective
organization of the society.
The two highest levels
have the core assumption
that the collective good is
equal to our individual good.
Level eight is the
highest, and it's
where we show up as
a holistic community
but also informed about
the complexity of life.
It is a level of collective
creation of abundance.
>> It's the people.
It's not the physical structures
that make up a community.
And it's, like, most people
build buildings and then expect
the community to come.
Our version is to build
the community first
to be informed by what you need
to build for that community,
and those spaces become
informed by the very people who
are going to be the
occupants and the residents
of those spaces.
>> When we think about designing
the cities of the future,
there are two ways of improving
connection that I believe are
essential for us to build
beautiful environments.
One is about our
connection to other people,
and the other part is about
our connection to nature.
I find that
connecting with nature
means connecting with ourselves,
our bodies, our nature.
Our bodies are also the most
relatable piece of nature
that we can connect with.
And this is where connecting
within and without
are so similar.
Connecting with other
people is a powerful mirror
to fully accept ourselves.
That is why I believe that
diversity in our communities
is essential as long
as we have shared
values that are based on care
and tolerance for each other.
>> We can rewire the very DNA
of how we plan cities so that we
optimize for humans
over automobiles,
and we optimize for health
over financial success,
and we really prioritize
creating thriving cities
of the future that everybody
wants to be in that are inspired
by nature, our own nature and
the nature that's all around us,
but the nature that's within us.
Most people don't want to
deal with that red tape.
But guess what.
The only way we are going to
transcend the current situation
that we're in is if
we all come together
and that there's
cross-sector collaboration
at an unprecedented
scale like never before.
[DANCE MUSIC]
So each of our projects
is a living laboratory,
a demonstration project for
prototyping a new humanity where
we give more than we take.
It's that simple.
The mission of the
future of cities
is to impact the lives
of a billion people
through innovations in
the built environment.
And as a placemaker, a
community builder as we
have a Future of Cities
climate innovation
hub, which is our headquarters,
and it's an event space,
and it's a coworking space.
If you can show people I
can make more money doing
the right thing, I think 99% of
the people will go that route.
And that's what we are aiming
to do with the Future of Cities
is show people how you can
actually deliver higher returns
by doing the right thing for the
community and the environment.
And it's not easy.
It forces you to be
creative and innovative
and look for incentives and
to work with governments
and to have public-private
partnerships, which
are not easy.
And so we created this
space on our own investment
to demonstrate what's possible.
And we have to keep on
iterating, iterating, iterating,
cocreating together to get
to that more perfect place.
>> Repurposing existing cities
and living environments is key.
If we just build
new ones, we are not
efficient in
resource consumption
with brand new projects.
Let's ask ourselves if
they are truly needed
or if other buildings
could be repurposed.
That should come before even
assessing the sustainability
of a new project based
on how efficient it
is in using resources.
>> I started meeting different
people in the community,
started listening
and learning a lot.
And then we made
our first investment
as the Phoenix Arts
and Innovation District
here in Springfield,
Jacksonville.
We're applying for
grants and incentives
for state, local, federal.
We want to make it
into a food forest.
We're going to do
farmers markets.
And at every one
of these places,
you have these tools where you
can create this circular system
where you can really
help regenerate
the community and
the neighborhood
with them, for them, by them,
and they become part of it.
It's about understanding place.
And it's about respecting
place and the history
and what's happened there.
It means every decision needs
to be made with intention
and informed by the community.
And so it just is
about deep listening,
and it's something that I
have to learn every day.
[SOOTHING MUSIC]
Where we are now is back to
the core, which is incredible.
It's coming back full
circle to where I was born.
And I never thought
I would come home.
It was so far from my
reality, moving back
to little, small-town,
Central Florida.
Community has always been core
to everything that we're doing.
And so it's the evolution or
coevolution of community which
started almost 50 years ago.
And it's scary, and
it's challenging,
and it's beautiful
all at the same time.
And so I take it very seriously.
And it's a very special moment
here at ChoZen with my wife.
And my goal is how do we--
how do we do more and have
more impact with less output?
So ChoZen to us is a philosophy,
and it is also a place in nature
that's a camp for the
humanity of the future
and a demonstration project
for regenerative systems
and living in a new way of
living in balance with nature
and in community
with one another
in a regenerative,
sustainable way.
>> We travel a lot, and there
are so many incredible places
around the world.
But what's really an
incredible opportunity for us
is to take care of
our own backyard
and this beautiful
river where we
see so many beautiful
creatures, manatees, alligators,
and a ton of birds, and otters.
And it's truly magical.
>> Nature is our north star,
is our guiding principle.
And that's really,
after everything,
the synthesis of
what we're doing.
And so our philosophy
here at ChoZen
is based on three very
simple principles,
that nature is medicine,
food is medicine,
and community is medicine, and
that these three principles is
really what we need to
thrive and to be healthy.
And that's why we're
growing our own food,
leveraging permaculture
principles and regenerative
soil and regenerative
agriculture and resource
management and composting
and solar systems
and alternative energy
and rapidly prototyping.
And now we're reimagining
and modernizing
and updating that vision within
the framework of ChoZen Retreat.
And so we're reimagining
what's possible.
The new version of utopia,
built on the shoulders
of my grandmother
and many thousands
of people and all of the
community, my brothers
and sisters and
sustainable kashi
that started the ecovillage
and the permaculture program
and now ChoZen farm and
picking up this baton.
>> Designing and redesigning
communities is such a powerful
process.
Everything comes
alive there, from how
we shape our external
infrastructure, like setting up
sustainable systems
or moving off
grid, all the way to
our internal values
and the rules we choose to
enable a productive coexistence.
Communities are a melting
pot of innovation.
They are the testing
ground for new ways
in which we can thrive together
and walk on the road to utopia.
>> And I hope that there will
be regenerative placemaking
practitioners all
over the world,
and I hope that that
will be my legacy.
And whether we impact
100 people, 1,000 people,
a million people,
billions of people,
as long as we made an impact,
I think that we've lived a good
life.
And as long as I've been a good
husband, a good brother, family
member, and a good
community leader,
then I think that I've
lived a very healthy life
and lived a very full life
and a very purposeful life.
And so I hope that the
work that we're doing
and the investments
that we made will have
ripples all over the world.
[MUSIC PLAYING]